README.md, before:

# 7-segment GPIO display platform for esphome.

This component let you connect 7-segment display directly to controller using just some resistors.

# Features
## 1 to 8 digits support
Just list as many `digit_pins` as you have. If you have just one digit feel free connect pin to power rail and don't specify this value.
### Segment reference
Connect the pins in order of [`g`, `f`, `e`, `d`, `c`, `b`, `a`, `.`], if your display does not have decimel point it can be ommited. 
![segments map](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/ed/7_Segment_Display_with_Labeled_Segments.svg/150px-7_Segment_Display_with_Labeled_Segments.svg.png)

## Resistors on segment or digit side
Usually driver is turning on whole digit one by one so you need resistors for each segment pin to have the same brightness. So 8 of them.

But if you have 4 digits you can put resistors on the digit side. To achieve the same brightness we have to turn on not whole digit, but the same segments on all digits at the time. To switch to this mode just set `iterate_digits` to `false`.

## Degree mark
Some displays have degree mark right before the last digit. So you can have `22.4°C` or `72.3°F` reading. Use `degree_pin` and `set_degree_on(bool)` function. Pin becomes `HIGH` when turned on. Just invert pin if you like to have it `LOW` when on.

## Clock colon
If display has `:` mark use `colon_pin` and `set_colon_on(bool)` function. Pin becomes `HIGH` when turned on. Just invert pin if you like to have it `LOW` when on.

## Common VCC or Common GND
If your display is common VCC, set `common_positive` to `true`, default to `false`.

# Usage Examples

## Common Anode display 4 digits
This example of wiring 4 digit 7-segment common anode display to [S2 mini](https://www.wemos.cc/en/latest/s2/s2_mini.html). This example will not work with original ESP32 becaues pins 34-39 are read-only there.

### Wiring
* Display segment pins [`g`, `f`, `e`, `d`, `c`, `b`, `a`, `.`] connected directly to pins [21, 40, 14, 10, 36, 17, 34, 8]
* Display digit pins connected via 220 Ohm resistors to pins [1, 2, 6, 4]
* Display colon anode connected to pin 38
* Display colon cathode connected to ground vai 220 Ohm resistor
* Display degree anode connected to pin 13
* Display degree cathode connected to ground via 220 Ohm resistor

```yaml
external_components:
  source: github://asergunov/7segment_gpio

time:
- platform: sntp
  id: sntp_time

esp32:
  board: esp32-s2-saola-1
  framework:
    type: arduino

display:
- platform: 7segment_gpio
  id: lcd
  digit_pins: [1,2,6,4]
  iterate_digits: false
  segment_pins: [21, 40, 14, 10, 36, 17, 34, 8]
  colon_pin: 38
  degree_pin: 13 # degree mark on 
  update_interval: 100ms
  lambda: |-
      switch((millis()/3000) % 3) {
      case 0:
        it.printf(0, "%4.1fC", 22.4);
        it.set_degree_on(true);
        it.set_colon_on(false);
        break;
      case 1:
        it.printf(0, "%4.1fF", 72,3);
        it.set_degree_on(true);
        it.set_colon_on(false);
        break;
      case 2:
        it.strftime(0, "%H%M", id(sntp_time).now());
        it.set_degree_on(false);
        it.set_colon_on((millis()/500) % 2);
        break;
      default:
        it.print("Er 1");
        it.set_colon_on(true);
        break;
      }
```

Commit message:

Use enum for display type
Signed-off-by: Anton Sergunov <setosha@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# 7-segment GPIO display platform for esphome.

This component let you connect 7-segment display directly to controller using just some resistors.

# Features
## 1 to 8 digits support
Just list as many `digit_pins` as you have. If you have just one digit feel free connect pin to power rail and don't specify this value.
### Segment reference
Connect the pins in order of [`g`, `f`, `e`, `d`, `c`, `b`, `a`, `.`], if your display does not have decimel point it can be ommited. 
![segments map](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/ed/7_Segment_Display_with_Labeled_Segments.svg/150px-7_Segment_Display_with_Labeled_Segments.svg.png)

## Resistors on segment or digit side
Usually driver is turning on whole digit one by one so you need resistors for each segment pin to have the same brightness. So 8 of them.

But if you have 4 digits you can put resistors on the digit side. To achieve the same brightness we have to turn on not whole digit, but the same segments on all digits at the time. To switch to this mode just set `iterate_digits` to `false`.

## Degree mark
Some displays have degree mark right before the last digit. So you can have `22.4°C` or `72.3°F` reading. Use `degree_pin` and `set_degree_on(bool)` function. Pin becomes `HIGH` when turned on. Just invert pin if you like to have it `LOW` when on.

## Clock colon
If display has `:` mark use `colon_pin` and `set_colon_on(bool)` function. Pin becomes `HIGH` when turned on. Just invert pin if you like to have it `LOW` when on.

## Common Anode or Common Cathode
Each diode on display has two terminals. Anode is Positive terminal, Cathode is negative. To select your display type use `display_type` config option.

Common Anode displays has Anodes of each digit connected together and exposed as digit pins. Cathodes of each segment connected and exposed as segment pins.
To display one digit we should select the digit by setting HIGH level on digit pit we need. To select segments to turn on we set segment pins we need to LOW.
To show different numbers we have to turn them on one by one.

# Usage Examples

## Common Anode display 4 digits
This example of wiring 4 digit 7-segment common anode display to [S2 mini](https://www.wemos.cc/en/latest/s2/s2_mini.html). This example will not work with original ESP32 becaues pins 34-39 are read-only there.

### Wiring
* Display segment pins [`g`, `f`, `e`, `d`, `c`, `b`, `a`, `.`] connected directly to pins [21, 40, 14, 10, 36, 17, 34, 8]
* Display digit pins connected via 220 Ohm resistors to pins [1, 2, 6, 4]
* Display colon anode connected to pin 38
* Display colon cathode connected to ground vai 220 Ohm resistor
* Display degree anode connected to pin 13
* Display degree cathode connected to ground via 220 Ohm resistor

```yaml
external_components:
  source: github://asergunov/7segment_gpio

time:
- platform: sntp
  id: sntp_time

esp32:
  board: esp32-s2-saola-1
  framework:
    type: arduino

display:
- platform: 7segment_gpio
  id: lcd
  digit_pins: [1,2,6,4]
  iterate_digits: false
  segment_pins: [21, 40, 14, 10, 36, 17, 34, 8]
  colon_pin: 38
  degree_pin: 13 # degree mark on 
  update_interval: 100ms
  lambda: |-
      switch((millis()/3000) % 3) {
      case 0:
        it.printf(0, "%4.1fC", 22.4);
        it.set_degree_on(true);
        it.set_colon_on(false);
        break;
      case 1:
        it.printf(0, "%4.1fF", 72,3);
        it.set_degree_on(true);
        it.set_colon_on(false);
        break;
      case 2:
        it.strftime(0, "%H%M", id(sntp_time).now());
        it.set_degree_on(false);
        it.set_colon_on((millis()/500) % 2);
        break;
      default:
        it.print("Er 1");
        it.set_colon_on(true);
        break;
      }
```
